==============================================================================
Character Creation and Leveling Up
==============================================================================

Attributes
----------

The core of an actor as they exist in the realm of Modular RPG's mechanics is
their set of attributes, from which most other statistics are derived. There
are eight attributes in the core game:
  
  Vigor
  Resilience
  Agility
  Finesse
  Knowledge
  Intuition
  Allure
  Presence

There is also an additional module we're using for playtesting, a setting
called Sarav, which supplies a ninth:
  
  Soul

Vigor is the core of an actor's physical might and musculature. An actor with
high Vigor punches hard, climbs quickly, and jumps far, while an actor with
low Vigor will struggle with active kinesthetic tasks.

Resilience is the core of an actor's hardiness and endurance. An actor with
high Resilience excels in running and swimming, and sustains and recovers from
injuries more readily. An actor with low Resilience will have difficulty with
activities that require cardiovascular endurance, and will struggle more with
their health.

Agility is the core of an actor's speed and flexibility. An actor with high
Agility moves swiftly, steps lightly, and can twist their body into new poses
and postures with ease. An actor with low agility lumbers or moves more
stiffly.

Finesse is the core of an actor's grace, balance, and fine motor skills. An
actor with high Finesse can take careful aim, draw clean and exacting lines,
and has sharp reflexes. An actor with low Finesse has shaky or imprecise
hands, or reacts too slowly or too haphazardly.

Knowledge is the core of an actor's education and cultivated skills. An actor
with high Knowledge knows history or trade skills and is a capable hobbyist.
An actor with low Knowledge finds other means to get by without formal
training or finely-practiced skills.

Intuition is the core of an actor's perceptions and emotional intelligence. An
actor with high Intuition is fluent in the art of paying attention and feeling
their way through a problem. An actor with low Intuition is inattentive,
forgetful, or credulous.

Allure is the core of an actor's ability to speak. An actor with high Allure
has a strong vocabulary, both of words and gestures, which they employ to make
others think or sense differently than they might otherwise. An actor with low
Allure can be unconvincing, awkward, rude, or merely milquetoast.

Presence is the core of an actor's persona, confidence, and outward projection
to the world. An actor with high Presence commands their emotions deftly and
carries themselves effectively for the situation. An actor with low presence
often goes unnoticed when they seek attention, or receives it when they avoid
it.

Soul is the core of an actor's metaphysical connection to their environment,
and a reflection of the literal presence of their soul. An actor with high
Soul has a greater potential to manipulate their own soul and those of others
around them to cause magical effects. An actor with low Soul is not in touch
with their magical capacity, and sometimes, not even aware of it.


Attribute Scores
----------------

Each actor has a number representing their aptitude in each of these aspects
of being on a scale from -100 to 100, with 0 being perfectly average. For
players, the following method is designed to give values near to zero, but
mostly biased toward the positive:
  
  Attribute Score = 4d10h3 - 15
  
That is, one score is generated by rolling four ten-sided dice, keeping the
highest three scores, summing them and subtracting 15 from that sum. A player
should generate all their scores and assign them to attributes as is suitable
for the character they have in mind.

Alternatively, for parties looking for more parity among their characters,
each player can roll all the scores for their characters except for the last
one. They sum the scores they have, and subtract that amount from a fixed
total which the DM decides on (five times the number of attributes is a good
ballpark to be in) to calculate the final score.


Attribute Growth Table
----------------------

Attributes grow over time for each actor. On each level, an actor will gain a
few points that grow their attributes. That number is found with this formula:
  
  Attribute Points = ceiling(Number of attributes / 2)
  
That is, half the number of attributes in use for the game, rounded up. These
points are allocated with a hybrid method, with some points distributed by the
player and some points distributed at random.
  
  Random Attribute Growths = ceiling(Attribute Points / 2)
  
  Chosen Attribute Points = floor(Attribute Points / 2)

The chosen attribute growths are distributed by the player, to whichever
attributes they select. Players can invest one into each of multiple scores,
or multiple points into the same score, or a mix.

The random attribute growths are also, in a way, determined by the player.
These points are distributed by dice rolls, but the player designs the table.
Using a table 1-100, each attribute must have at least a 1% chance of being
increased, with no other restrictions. However, players who seek to rapidly
grow in one attribute should be warned that the greatest value an attribute
score can be is 100, and any growth in that attribute beyond 100 is discarded,
never to be used somewhere more useful.

An example table looks something like this:

  Attribute  |  Growth Rolls
  --------------------------  
  Vigor      |    01 - 15
  Resilience |    16 - 24
  Agility    |    25 - 44
  Finesse    |    45 - 56
  Knowledge  |    57 - 68
  Intuition  |    69 - 79
  Allure     |    80 - 84
  Presence   |    85 - 99
  Soul       |      100

So if the player whose actor has this table rolls a 100, they gain a point in
Soul. If they roll at 48, they gain a point in Finesse.





