Combat Rules
==============================================================================

Combat is played in a series of rounds. Each round, actors who are taking part
in the fight will have a turn to perform a set of actions. A round's length is
conceptually variable, as the flow of combat can change in mere seconds for a
brief skirmish between a few individuals to hours or days for a large scale
battle between armies. Modular RPG assumes smaller fights, with only a handful
of combatants per side, so for these purposes, a round can be expected to take
6 seconds (for ten even divisions of a minute). Game masters who adjust this
value will need to account for the change in their actors' speed, which is
a distance in feet that the actor can move in one round.

  Speed = 30 + (5 * floor(Agility / 10))  (Subject to Quirks and Perks.)

When using a grid to determine the movement of actors, a square or a hexagon
is considered to be a space which takes 5 feet of movement to traverse. Grids
which use hexagons are recommended for their greater flexibility of angled
movement, but if squares must be used, the game master should specify rules
for diagonal movement, if any.

Grid scale can, of course, be scaled up or down by the game master as they see
fit.

The order in which actors take their turns is determined by initiative. At the
start of each round of combat, actors roll initiative.

  Initiative = 1d100 + Agility  (Subject to Quirks and Perks.)

Actors are ordered from greatest to least initiative. Initiative is rerolled
each round to better simulate the changing flow of battle, and how the
readiness of individual combatants can shift from moment to moment.

Each actor's turn is composed of four types of action:
  
  Movement
  Primary Actions
  Secondary Actions
  Tertiary Actions

Movement is the simplest part. During an actor's turn, they may move up to
their Speed in a round during their turn at any point in their turn. Movement
may be broken up between actions in a round.

Some areas may be deemed difficult terrain if the surfaces are especially
soft, slippery, or hard to see, etc. Difficult terrain costs twice as much
speed to traverse as normal terrain.

Primary actions are an actor's main method of changing the state of battle.
Most skill checks that can be used in battle are primary actions, and will be
marked as Primary in the skill list if they can be used in this context. Other
options for primary actions include:
  
  Dash
  Evade
  Ready
  
Dash replaces a primary action with a second movement. With this, an actor may
move double their usual speed in the round when this action is taken, with any
modifiers to the actor's speed taken into account before doubling it.

Evade is an action that increases an actor's dodge class until their next turn
or until combat ends, whichever comes first. The formula:
  
  Evade Dodge Class = Dodge Class + floor(Dodge Class / 2)

Ready is an action that delay's an actor's action for up to a round, and
allows them to leave their decision to the actions of other actors in battle.
When taking Ready, an actor must specify a trigger -- an event that might
occur sometime before their next turn -- and then they specify two courses of
play -- one that happens if the trigger does occur, and one that happens if it
doesn't occur. Each course of play must have one primary action, and may
include a secondary action, a tertiary action, and the remainder of the
actor's movement if they had not used them prior to taking Ready. When the
trigger does occur, the appropriate course of play happens at that instant.
When the trigger fails to occur, the course of play must happen before the
actor's next turn.

Secondary actions are faster, smaller actions that can be taken within the
duration of a round that do not interfere with a primary action. Some skill
checks that can be used in battle are secondary actions, and will be marked as
Secondary in the skill list if they can be used in this context. Other options
for primary actions include:
  
  Five Foot Step
  Retrieve Item
  Stash Item
  Use Item

A five foot step is a step that an actor can take to square up to the right
position for attacking an enemy, leaving range, or just pushing themselves a
little bit farther without needing to dash. The five foot step does not count
as movement for the purposes of dash, and can be taken without using the
movement portion of the turn.

Retrieving an item allows an actor to liberate an item stashed on the outside
of their body in an easily-accessible pouch, quiver, scabbard, sheath, pocket,
holster, loop, or other means of attachment, or to pick up from the ground in
the five foot space where they are standing.

Stashing an item allows an actor return an item to a secure means of holding
(as in the examples specified for Retrieve Item).

Using an item permits the usage of items that cannot strictly be construed as
attacks, such as taking a dose of a potion, spiking a weapon or arrow with
poison, throwing a smoke bomb, tossing marbles or caltrops, or emptying a
bucket of liquid, provided that the necessary materials are already in hand.

Tertiary actions are actions which can be done concurrently with the rest of
an actor's turn, taking less mental or physical effort than a secondary or
primary action. A handful of skill checks that can be used in battle are
tertiary actions, and will be marked as Tertiary in the skill list if they can
be used in this context. Other options for tertiary actions include:
  
  Drop Item

Dropping an item releases it from the player's hand onto the ground where they
are standing.



