==============================================================================
Character Status
==============================================================================

* Indicates a feature of an additional module included for playtesting.

Character Statistics
--------------------

The well-being, fighting fitness, and general readiness of a character are
measured by several statistics:
  
  Hit Points
  Dodge Class
  Vitality Points
  Vital Threshold
  Exhaustion Points
  Mana Points*


Hit Points and Dodge Class
--------------------------
  
Hit points are a measure of an actor's combat readiness, aggregating physical
and mental health in addition to the actor's will to fight or take risks. An
actor's hit point maximum increases slowly as they develop. Hit point
statistics follow these formulas:
  
  Hit Point Maximum = 35 + floor(resilience / 5)
  
  Hit Point Recovery = 5 + floor(resilience / 10) per short rest.
  
Actors whose Hit Points drop to zero while their Vitality Points number at
least one become Incapacitated, described under Conditions.

An actor's dodge class is a measure of how difficult they are to strike in
combat, either from nimbleness or armor. It is calculated:
  
  Dodge Class = 50 + armor bonus + floor(agility / 10) + situational bonus

When an attack roll (made with a Wield or Brawl check, ordinarily) exceeds an
actor's dodge class, that actor is struck by the attack, and the attacker will
roll to determine the damage.


Vitality and Exhaustion
-----------------------

Vitality Points are a measure of an actor's ability to withstand physical
shock. Severe attacks cause injuries that require greater recovery times and
more rest. Most actors have only 3 VP, although these values can be changed in
some rare circumstances, as through quirks, perks, or story events. Vitality
point statisics follow these formulas:
  
  Max Vitality Points = 3
  
  Vitality Point Recovery = All on long rest when not Exhausted
  
An actor's Vital Threshold is the amount of damage which will incur vital
damage, that is, damage at which the actor's VP is diminished. An actor's
vital threshold is:
  
  Vital Threshold = 10 + floor(resilience / 20)

When an actor takes damage, the method by which VP damage is calculated is:

  Vitality Damage = floor(damage taken / vital threshold)

In other words, vitality damage is taken whenever an attack's damage output is
at least equal to the actor's vital threshold, with an extra point for every
multiple above that it reaches.

When an actor's Vitality Points drop to zero, they fall Unconscious, described
under Conditions below. If an actor's Vitality Points fall below zero, they
are dead.

If an actor is not killed while they are unconscious, and they are taken to
where they can safely recover, they will awaken after a short rest, with 1 VP
restored, and 1 Exhaustion Point, as well as the HP they recover from a short
rest.

When an actor has Exhaustion Points, they are unable to recover Vitality from
a long rest. One Exhaustion Point is removed from an actor for every long rest
until they reach zero, at which point long rests will begin to restore
Vitality Points for them again. Exhausted actors suffer the following effects:

  Exhaustion Penalty =
    Penalty to all skill checks of -5 * EP,
    Hit Point recovery penalty of  -1 * EP

Actors with more than 3 VP will suffer an additional -5 penalty to all skill
checks and an additional -1 HP recovery for each additional EP they accrue.

Should an actor's EP ever exceed their max VP, they will die at some point
during the course of the eight hours to follow, barring a miracle of game
master intervention of course. This slow death can be used as an opportunity
by the actor to voice their last words.


Mana Points*
-----------

Mana Points are a measure of the size and might of an actor's soul. Actors who
use magic and cast spells will utilize energy from this pool. The pool is of
the size:
  
  Mana Point Maximum = 35 + floor(soul / 5)


Conditions
----------

In Modular RPG, actors can have a variety of status conditions, which change
some of their character statistics.
  
  Normal
  Incapacitated
  Disabled
  Unconscious
  Asleep

Actors with Normal status are suffering from no other conditions, and function
as their statistics describe without modification.

An actor becomes Incapacitated when their HP drops to 0 but their VP remains
above 0. In this state, an actor is lying on the ground, either prone or
supine, with their speed dropped to 0 and their VT reduced by half. They
cannot take Reactions, Full-round actions, or movement (except for 5 feet of
movement offered by a Secondary action) and may not use a full round action.
If another actor makes a successful Treat Injury check on an Incapacitated
actor, that actor regains 1 HP and becomes Disabled instead. An actor who is
Incapacitated will return to Normal status after a short rest.

When an actor is Disabled, their speed and VT are halved. They cannot take
Reactions or Full-round actions. An actor who is Disabled will return to
Normal status after a short rest.

When an actor is Unconscious, their VT drops to 1 and they are unable to move,
take actions, make skill checks, or respond to stimuli. An actor becomes
Unconscious by having their VP drop to 0. After a short rest, an Unconscious
actor will return to Normal status and gain 1 VP and 1 EP, in addition to the
HP recovery from a short rest.

When an actor is Asleep, their VT drops to 1 and they are unable to move,
take actions, or make skill checks, but they can still respond to stimuli. A
sleeping actor will awaken if they are attacked and not killed, if they are
touched or shaken repeatedly, or if they are subjected to bright lights or
loud sounds.


Body Positions
--------------

Some minor effects are applied to an actor depending on their position.
  
  Standing
  Crouching
  Prone
  Supine

A standing actor has no advantages or ill effects.

A crouching actor has a +10 bonus to their dodge class against Aimed attacks,
but a -10 to their dodge class against Melee attacks. An actor can drop into a
crouching stance for free, but must expend 10 feet of movement to rise to a
standing position.

A prone actor has a +15 bonus to their dodge class against Aimed attacks, but
a -15 to their dodge class against Melee attacks. All terrain is considered
difficult terrain while prone. They have -10 on any checks made as attacks,
but a +10 on Trip checks. An actor can drop prone for free, but must expend
15 feet of movement to rise to a standing position.

A supine actor has a +15 bonus to their dodge class against Aimed attacks, but
a -15 to their dodge class against Melee attacks. An actor must make a DC 50
Tumble check to fall supine. On a pass, they fall gracefully. On a failure,
they take 1d4 bludgeoning damage. A supine actor cannot move, and they must
expend all their speed to return to a standing position, or 15 feet of
movement to flip to a prone position.


==============================================================================
Carrying Capacity and Movement of Heavy Objects
==============================================================================

An actor's carry weight is the maximum amount of weight in pounds that
they can carry without adverse effects. It is calculated as:
  
  Carry Weight = 50 + (5 * floor(Vigor / 10)) + (5 * floor(Resilience / 10)) lb
  
An actor can carry up to their carry weight in their hands, in bags, pouches,
holsters, loops, and pockets fastened to their body or clothes, or some
combination thereof without any adverse effects.

In some circumstances, an actor's carry weight is insufficient for what they
need to carry. For these circumstances, they can carry up to their Overload:
  
  Overload = Carry Weight + floor(Carry Weight / 2) lb
  
While the amount an actor is carrying is between their carry weight and their
overload, their speed and dodge class are lowered:

  Overloaded Speed = Speed - 15
  
  Overloaded Dodge Class = Dodge Class - 25

Overloaded actors will also lose 2 HP per hour from carrying excess weight.


==============================================================================
Combat Rules and the Action Economy
==============================================================================

General Rules
-------------

Combat is played in a series of rounds. Each round, actors who are taking part
in the fight will have a turn to perform a set of actions. A round's length is
conceptually variable, as the flow of combat can change in mere seconds for a
brief skirmish between a few individuals to hours or days for a large scale
battle between armies. Modular RPG assumes smaller fights, with only a handful
of combatants per side, so for these purposes, a round can be expected to take
6 seconds (for ten even divisions of a minute). Game masters who adjust this
value will need to account for the change in their actors' speed, which is
a distance in feet that the actor can move in one round.

  Speed = 30 + (5 * floor(Agility / 10))  (Subject to Quirks and Perks.)

When using a grid to determine the movement of actors, a square or a hexagon
is considered to be a space which takes 5 feet of movement to traverse. Grids
which use hexagons are recommended for their greater flexibility of angled
movement, but if squares must be used, the game master should specify rules
for diagonal movement, if any.

Grid scale can, of course, be scaled up or down by the game master as they see
fit.

The order in which actors take their turns is determined by initiative. At the
start of each round of combat, actors roll initiative.

  Initiative = 1d100 + Agility  (Subject to Quirks and Perks.)

Actors are ordered from greatest to least initiative. Initiative is rerolled
each round to better simulate the changing flow of battle, and how the
readiness of individual combatants can shift from moment to moment.


Action Economy
--------------

Each actor's turn is composed of four types of action:
  
  Movement
  Primary actions
  Secondary actions
  Tertiary actions

There are some special actions which can be taken, which have their own rules:
  
  Full-round actions
  Reactions


Movement
--------

Movement is the simplest part. During an actor's turn, they may move up to
their Speed in a round during their turn at any point in their turn. Movement
may be broken up between actions in a round.

Some areas may be deemed difficult terrain if the surfaces are especially
soft, slippery, or hard to see, etc. Difficult terrain costs twice as much
speed to traverse as normal terrain.


Primary Actions
---------------

Primary actions are an actor's main method of changing the state of battle.
Most skill checks that can be used in battle are primary actions, and will be
marked as Primary in the skill list if they can be used in this context. Other
options for primary actions include:
  
  Dash
  Evade
  Ready
  
Dash replaces a primary action with a second movement. With this, an actor may
move double their usual speed in the round when this action is taken, with any
modifiers to the actor's speed taken into account before doubling it. Dashing
also allows an actor to rush through the space an adversary is standing in,
possibly provoking an attack of opportunity. A Run check by the actor is used
as the DC for the adversary's attack of opportunity.

Evade is an action that increases an actor's dodge class until their next turn
or until combat ends, whichever comes first. The formula:
  
  Evade Dodge Class = Dodge Class + floor(Dodge Class / 2)

Ready is an action that delay's an actor's action for up to a round, and
allows them to leave their decision to the actions of other actors in battle.
When taking Ready, an actor must specify a trigger -- an event that might
occur sometime before their next turn -- and then they specify two courses of
play -- one that happens if the trigger does occur, and one that happens if it
doesn't occur. Each course of play must have one primary action, and may
include a secondary action, a tertiary action, and the remainder of the
actor's movement if they had not used them prior to taking Ready. When the
trigger does occur, the appropriate course of play happens at that instant.
When the trigger fails to occur, the course of play must happen before the
actor's next turn.


Secondary Actions
-----------------

Secondary actions are faster, smaller actions that can be taken within the
duration of a round that do not interfere with a primary action. Some skill
checks that can be used in battle are secondary actions, and will be marked as
Secondary in the skill list if they can be used in this context. Other options
for primary actions include:
  
  Direct
  Five Foot Step
  Retrieve Item
  Stash Item
  Use Item

An actor may direct allies with instructions in a language they understand.
This act of communication does not require a check, but limits the number of
times an actor may speak during combat. Other acts of speech as defined in the
skills list are also secondary actions.

A five foot step is a step that an actor can take to square up to the right
position for attacking an enemy, leaving range, or just pushing themselves a
little bit farther without needing to dash. The five foot step does not count
as movement for the purposes of dash, and can be taken without using the
movement portion of the turn.

Retrieving an item allows an actor to liberate an item stashed on the outside
of their body in an easily-accessible pouch, quiver, scabbard, sheath, pocket,
holster, loop, or other means of attachment, or to pick up from the ground in
the five foot space where they are standing.

Stashing an item allows an actor return an item to a secure means of holding
(as in the examples specified for Retrieve Item).

Using an item permits the usage of items that cannot strictly be construed as
attacks, such as taking a dose of a potion, spiking a weapon or arrow with
poison, throwing a smoke bomb, tossing marbles or caltrops, or emptying a
bucket of liquid, provided that the necessary materials are already in hand.

Tertiary Actions
----------------

Tertiary actions are actions which can be done concurrently with the rest of
an actor's turn, taking less mental or physical effort than a secondary or
primary action. A handful of skill checks that can be used in battle are
tertiary actions, and will be marked as Tertiary in the skill list if they can
be used in this context. Other options for tertiary actions include:
  
  Drop Item

Dropping an item releases it from the player's hand onto the ground where they
are standing.

Full-Round Actions
------------------

Full-round actions are actions which consume an actor's entire turn, including
movement and reaction, due to the amount of concentration, precision, or
attention they require. A handful of skill checks that can be used in battle
are full-round actions, and will be marked as Full-round in the skill list if
they can be used in this context. Other options for tertiary actions include:
  
  Surrender
  Yield

Conceptually, Surrender and Yield are the same action, although Surrender is
for when the actor taking this action is at a clear disadvantage, while Yield
is a show of good faith from an actor with the upper hand. When surrendering
or yielding, the actor must signal to their adversaries their intention,
possibly including addressing them, and be convincing. The game master may
call for a Bargain, Charm, Deceive, Intimidate, or Persuade check here,
depending the actor's intentions and methods, and the feelings and motivations
of the actor's adversaries.


Reactions
---------

Reactions are actions which are performed reflexively or opportunistically by
an actor. They do not have to be performed on the actor's turn, but an actor
can only take up to one reaction per round. A handful of skill checks that can
be used in battle are reactions. Other options for reactions include:
  
  <none?>


==============================================================================
Skills and Their Applications
==============================================================================
The following skill checks are equivalent to checks with the toolkit
appropriate to performing the skill. Worded differently, skill proficiencies
are tool proficiencies and vice-versa.

Possessing the correct tools for a task will provide a large bonus, using
improvised tools for a task will provide a small bonus, and using no tools
will incur a small penalty.

Barter, Craft, Play, Repair, and Wield are skills that apply to different
kinds of objects. Actors may have multiple copies of these skills,
"instantiated" for the particular class of item. One actor may be skilled in
Barter <Jewelry>, but another might be skilled in Barter <Real Estate>.
The categories are left to the player's imagination and the game master's
discretion.

Too general a category will grant too much leeway, but too specific and the
actor will seldom find it useful. Craft <Musical Instrument> may be too broad,
while Craft <Violin> might be too narrow. A middle ground, such as Craft
<Bowed Instrument>, might be more suitable for one actor.

The game master should offer advice as to what level of detail they will be
running the game at, and whether specificity or generality is preferred for
the roleplaying environment.

It is the player's decision as to whether they specialize in a small set of
skills which they grow quickly, or to spread out among several different
disciplines. For skills which require tools, instruments, or weapons, the
player must possess the appropriate equipment when they level up to advance
these skills. Roleplaying practice is recommended, but whether it is required
is left to game master discretion.

Skills whose attribute is marked with a * are from a non-core module, but are
being used in current playtesting and development.

Skills have usage limitations. Non-combat skills cannot be used under the
stress of fighting, but can be used in other contexts. Combat skills can only
be used in combat as the type of action they are specified for (i.e. Primary,
Secondary, or Tertiary), but can be used out of combat in any context which is
appropriate.

Some skills involve tools. The game master can decide whether a task is
impossible or merely impeded due to a lack of tools. When an actor engages in
a task that is merely impeded without tools, a modifier is applied to their
skill check according to what supplies they have:

  No tools:                    -10
  Partial or improvised tools:  0
  Appropriate tools:           +10

Where the game master deems appropriate, skill checks may situationally call
for a different attribute. Any skill check may be rolled with Knowledge in
place of its usual Attribute for history or technical information about that
skill, as an example. The use of skills as a knowledge check never requires
tools


Attune
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Attune is a measure of an actor's ability to interface with magical items
  and constructs, and attempting to use such items will require an Attune
  check.

Barter <Type of Item>
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Barter is a measure of an actor's ability to judge the usefulness and
  monetary value of items, objects, or services of the specified type. An
  actor might use this skill when deciding what to bring back from a treasure
  horde, or when haggling with a shopkeeper over the cost of merchandise.

Blend
  Attribute: Presence
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Blend is a measure of an actor's ability to act like other actors in their
  environment, and to go unnoticed despite being an outsider. Blending hides
  the actor in plain sight, without disguise or stealth, causing them to go
  unnoticed purely because nothing about them seems worth noticing.
  
  When a character is in a situation where they need to suppress an emotional
  reaction, they will need to make a Blend check.

Brawl
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  
  Brawl is a measure of an actor's ability to fight with only their body --
  arms, legs, hands, feet, head, etc.

Cast <Type of Magic>
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Determinant on spell specification.
  Tools: Determinant on spell specification.
  
  Cast is a measure of an actor's ability to cast spells. A spell's function
  in combat, if any, is left to the specification of the spell's description
  as a perk. As such, a spell use up any kind of action slot in combat, or be
  inapplicable during a fight. 

Charm
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Charm is a measure of an actor's ability to appeal to another actor's
  emotions or attractions to influence their mood or point of view.
  
Climb
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  Tools: Pitons and rope or a grappling hook for scaling vertically without
         handholds.
  
  Climb is a measure of an actor's ability to scale and rappel steep surfaces
  and objects. In instances of scaling a wall or cliff with few handholds,
  tools are necessary. When climbing in combat, surfaces that require a Climb
  check are considered difficult terrain for movement expense, and require a
  successful climb check in order to be traversed.

Craft <Type of Item> 
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Trade-specific.
  
  Craft is a measure of an actor's ability to assemble, cook, or design items
  of the specified type.
  
Dance
  Attribute: Agility         
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Dance is a measure of an actor's ability to move rhythmically as a means of
  artistic expression.

Deceive
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Deceive is a measure of an actor's ability to convincingly conceal or
  corrupt the truth by how they control their voice and choose to reveal or
  omit information.

Detect Magic
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Tertiary
  Detect Magic is a measure of an actor's ability to sense magical effects or
  metaphysical presences in their environment.

Disguise
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Clothes, cosmetics, and props as appropriate
  
  Disguise is a measure of an actor's ability to conceal the identity of
  themselves or another actor by altering their external appearance
  
Draw
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: A writing utensil and a surface to draw on.
  
  Draw is a measure of an actor's ability to accurately depict creatures,
  objects, scenes, or diagrams in an artistic or informative manner.

Fasten
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Rope, straps, chains, cuffs, cords, or string, as appropriate.
  
  Fasten is a measure of an actor's ability to secure objects with restraints
  or fibers.

Flourish
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Primary
  
  Flourish is a measure of an actor's equilibrium and ability to stand on or
  traverse narrow surfaces without falling or faltering, or when the time
  comes to fall, to fall gracefully or catch themselves while or before
  plunging. When an actor should enter such a scenario, a Flourish check will
  determine whether their posture upon landing is favorable.
  
  When an actor falls, they take damage in relation to the height of their
  fall. The formula for fall damage is:
    
    Dice to roll = floor(Height of fall in feet / 10)
    
    Damage = (Dice to roll)d8
    
  In other words, for every 10 feet an actor falls, they suffer 1d8 damage.
  For falls shorter than 10 feet, actors take no damage. 
  
  Flourish is also the skill that defends an actor from a Trip check made
  against them.

Forage
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Primary
  
  Forage is a measure of an actor's ability to find useful natural resources
  in the wilderness.

Garden
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: A vessel of water, shovel, trowel, rake, hoe, pitchfork, or other
  implements as appropriate.
  
  Garden is a measure of an actor's ability to tend to plants and other flora.
  
Grasp
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Reaction
  Tools: Determinant on the situation.
  
  Grasp is a measure of an actor's manual dexterity, to include handwriting
  and the art of imitating another's, tracking and snatching fast-approaching
  objects, and various other gestures and maneuvers of the hand.
  
  Specifically, the act of catching or swatting away an object may be used in
  combat as a reaction, provided the target of the act is not ammunition for
  a weapon.

Handle Animal
  Attribute: Presence
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Handle Animal is a measure of an actor's ability to demand the attention of
  and give commands to animals.

Hide
  Attribute: Agility
  Usage: Primary
  
  Hide is a measure of an actor's ability to make themselves unseen when
  remaining still, often by contorting their body to squeeze into small
  spaces. Attempting to move while hiding will initiate a Sneak check.

Intimidate
  Attribute: Presence
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Intimidate is a measure of an actor's ability to take advantage of another
  actor's fears and insecurities, or to project a sense of ferocity about
  themselves, to influence their mood or point of view.

Investigate
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Investigate is a measure of an actor's ability to discover information from
  other actors and their environment about a particular person, location, or
  object of interest. (This skill is usually used in place of multiple smaller
  conversations with individual NPC actors.)

Jump
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  
  Jump is a measure of an actor's ability to leap gaps or spring upwards. With
  a running start of at least 10 feet in a straight line, an actor can perform
  a long jump on a successful Jump check. A long jump's maximum distance is:
    
    Long jump = 5 + floor(Vigor / 5) feet
  
  An actor can perform a high jump with a running start of at least 5 feet and
  a successful Jump check. A high jump's maximum height is:
  
    High jump = floor(Vigor / 10) feet or 1 foot, whichever's higher.

Heft
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  
  Heft is a measure of an actor's ability to move large, heavy objects under
  their own strength. The amount an actor can lift freely is their carry
  weight, but an actor must succeed on a Heft check to exceed that amount:
    
    DC = Weight of object in pounds - floor(Carry weight / 2)
  
  Actors who team up to lift objects together will evenly divide the weight
  across their carry weights. Actors whose fair share of the load exceeds
  their carry weight must make a skill check for lifting their portion of the
  load.
  
  Actors cannot lift or carry more than their overload weight, except for very
  short distances or periods of time.
  
  Pushing, pulling, and dragging objects follow similar rules. An actor can
  push, pull, or drag up to their overload in weight at their overloaded
  speed. For loads greater than that, use the following formula for the DC of
  the Heft check:
    
    DC = floor((Weight / 3) + (Weight / Overload) * 10)
  
  Actors who team up to push, pull, or drag an object will evenly divide the
  load between them. Actors whose fair share of the load exceeds their
  overload must make a Heft check for the weight of their fair share.
  
Listen
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Tertiary
  
  Listen is a measure of an actor's sense of hearing and is part of their
  general situational awareness.

Look
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Tertiary
  
  Look is a measure of an actor's eyesight and is part of their general
  situational awareness.

Navigate
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Sextant and star chart, or map and compass, or directions
         and landmarks, or a similar combination appropriate to the situation.
  
  Navigate is a measure of an actor's ability to orient themselves and plan
  routes with the tools available.

Persuade
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Persuade is a measure of an actor's ability to appeal to another actor's
  logical senses and intelligence to change their mood or point of view.

Play <Type of Instrument or Game>
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: An instrument of the chosen type.
  
  Play is a measure of an actor's ability and practice with an instrument or a
  game of the specified type.

Recall
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Recall is a measure of an actor's ability to recall important details and
  facts when the player controlling the actor might have forgotten. It's a
  skill that reaches into a metagame environment, but to prevent players from
  getting stuck to the game master's frustration.

Run
  Attribute: Resilience
  Usage: Primary
  
  Run is a measure of an actor's ability to maintain a fast, steady pace on
  foot for an extended period of time. When using the Dash action in combat to
  rush past an adversary, the adversary may initiate an attack of opportunity.
  If they do so, the actor who is dashing must make make a Run roll of a total
  greater than their adversary's attack roll to avoid being hit.
  
  Outside of combat, Run is used to sustain speed during when the actor is
  racing or attempting to escape something. The game master sets the DC and
  the effects on the actor's movement for a success or a failure.

Search
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Primary
  
  Search is a measure of an actor's ability to find lost or hidden objects,
  typically non-natural ones like switches, items, and weapons, in their
  environment.

Sense Motive
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Sense Motive is a measure of an actor's ability to estimate the intentions
  of another actor, in speech, writing, or the layout of their environment.
  This skill will often be used as a dynamic means of creating a DC for
  Charm, Deceive, Intimidate, or Persuade checks.

Sing
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Sing is a measure of an actor's ability to create or recite music vocally,
  particularly in a way that other actors will find entertaining or artistic.

Sneak
  Attribute: Agility
  Usage: Primary
  
  Sneak is a measure of an actor's ability to go unnoticed in movement, by
  either moving quickly and staying out of sight, or by moving silently, as
  the situation requires.

Swim
  Attribute: Resilience
  Usage: Primary
  
  Swim is a measure of an actor's ability to stay afloat and move in water or
  other liquids. A failed Swim check in slow-moving or still water does not
  immediately result in drowning, but rather prevents the actor from moving
  their speed in water (i.e. they are treading water). A successful swim check
  must be made before an actor can use their speed in water.
  
  Failed Swim checks in stronger currents, or after multiple failures, may
  result in the actor floundering or drowning.
  
  Water does not count as difficult terrain if the actor is swimming. Wading
  in water causes the water to act like difficult terrain.
  
Tinker
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Full-round
  Tools: Determinant on the object being manipulated.
  
  Tamper is a measure of an actor's ability to repair, recalibrate, disarm,
  dislodge, unlock, or otherwise manipulate mechanical devices without them
  necessarily remaining functional or being able to be restored to normal
  operation afterward.

Track Creature
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Track is a measure of an actor's ability to follow a creature of the
  specified type from its foot prints, scents, telltale effects on features of
  the flora and fauna of the environment, and an understanding of its natural
  behaviors and instincts.

Treat Disease
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Determinant on the type of disease, but likely to involve remedies,
         special procedures, physical assistance, food, water, or rest.
  
  Treat Disease is a measure of an actor's ability to provide care or cure to
  other actors (or themselves) as they suffer from an illness.

Treat Injury
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Full-round
  Tools: Determinant on the type of injury, but likely to involve salves,
         bandages, bindings, food, water, or rest.
  
  Treat Injury is a measure of an actor's ability to provide care and medicine
  to other actors as they suffer from a wound. When used as an action in
  combat, a Treat Injury check may be used to apply a bandage or tourniquet to
  a wounded actor to prevent a grave injury from growing worse later.

Trip
  Attribute: Agility
  Usage: Primary
  
  Trip is a measure of an actor's ability to take other actors by surprise and
  throw them off balance. The target of a Trip check sets the DC with a
  Flourish check. If the actor making the Trip check beats the DC, the target
  falls to the ground. The game master determines whether the player falls
  supine or prone, as would be appropriate for the scenario. If the Trip check
  fails, the target remains standing.

Wield <Type of Melee Weapon>
  Attribute: Vigor 
  Usage: Primary, Reaction
  Tools: A weapon of the specified type.
  
  Wield Melee is a measure of an actor's ability to fight effectively with a
  weapon of the specified type.
  
  In certain circumstances, Wield Melee can be taken as a reaction. When an
  adversary dashes through an actor's space, they make a Wield Melee check
  against a Run check by the adversary. The attack succeeds if it beats the DC
  set by the Run check.

Wield <Aimed Weapon>
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Primary
  Tools: A weapon of the specified type.
  
  Wield Aimed is a measure of an actor's ability to fight effectively with a
  weapon of the specified type.
  
 
==============================================================================
Spells
==============================================================================
Elements:
  Fire    Sonic
  Frost   Corrosion
  Shock   Psychic

Burst <Element> (12 GP)
  <Fire>      -> Firebolt    (Flames are briefly visible around the target.)
  <Frost>     -> Icicle      (Chips of ice surround the target for two tiles.)
  <Shock>     -> Spark       (Hair on the target and others for two tiles out
                              stands on end.)
  <Sonic>     -> Thunderclap (Thunder is heard for 40 tiles from the target.)
  <Corrosion> -> Acid Stream (Vegetation withers for two tiles out.)
  
  Casting time: 1 primary action
  Duration:     Instantaneous
  
  When first taking this spell, you select one element, and that will be the
  damage type for this spell. This spell may be taken multiple times for
  different elements. Make a [Spellcasting Skill] check against the target's
  dodge class. If you succeed, you deal 1d10 + ([Attribute] // 10) of
  <Element> damage, with the secondary effect listed with each element applied
  as well.
  
Dowse (10 GP)
  Casting time: 1 minute
  Duration: 10 minutes
  
  Use magic forces to guide you to a source of water, a type of vegetation,
  a suspected hidden item, or a type of ore. The game master sets a difficulty
  class, against which you roll a [Spellcasting Skill] check. If the check
  succeeds, then a mystical force will gently pull you toward the object of
  your desires for the duration, out to 60 tiles from where you initially cast
  this spell.

Find North (8 GP)
  Casting time: 1 primary action
  Duration:     1 hour
  
  When using this spell, an illusory image of an arrow appears on the back of
  one of the caster's hands. The arrow always points toward True North, thus
  the image will rotate, as if a tattoo come to life. A slight burning
  sensation is felt when facing due South.





