Skills and Their Applications
==============================================================================
The following skill checks are equivalent to checks with the toolkit
appropriate to performing the skill. Worded differently, skill proficiencies
are tool proficiencies and vice-versa.

Possessing the correct tools for a task will provide a large bonus, using
improvised tools for a task will provide a small bonus, and using no tools
will incur a small penalty.

Appraise, Cook, Craft, Dance, Play, Repair, Track, Treat, and Wield are skills
that apply to different kinds of objects. Actors may have multiple copies of
these skills, "instantiated" for the particular class of item. One actor may
be skilled in Appraise <Jewelry>, but another might be skilled in Appraise
<Real Estate>. The categories are left to the player's imagination and the
game master's discretion.

Too general a category will grant too much leeway, but too specific and the
actor will seldom find it useful. Craft <Musical Instrument> may be too broad,
while Craft <Violin> might be too narrow. A middle ground, such as Craft
<Bowed Instrument>, might be more suitable for one actor.

The game master should offer advice as to what level of detail they will be
running the game at, and whether specificity or generality is preferred for
the roleplaying environment.

It is the player's decision as to whether they specialize in a small set of
skills which they grow quickly, or to spread out among several different
disciplines. For skills which require tools, instruments, or weapons, the
player must possess the appropriate equipment when they level up to advance
these skills. Roleplaying practice is recommended, but whether it is required
is left to game master discretion.

Skills whose attribute is marked with a * are from a non-core module, but are
being used in current playtesting and development.

Skills have usage limitations. Non-combat skills cannot be used under the
stress of fighting, but can be used in other contexts. Combat skills can only
be used in combat as the type of action they are specified for (i.e. Primary,
Secondary, or Tertiary), but can be used out of combat in any context which is
appropriate.

Some skills involve tools. The game master can decide whether a task is
impossible or merely impeded due to a lack of tools. When an actor engages in
a task that is merely impeded without tools, a modifier is applied to their
skill check according to what supplies they have:

  No tools:                    -10
  Partial or improvised tools:  0
  Appropriate tools:           +10

Where the game master deems appropriate, skill checks may situationally call
for a different attribute. Any skill check may be rolled with Knowledge in
place of its usual Attribute for history or technical information about that
skill, as an example. The use of skills as a knowledge check never requires
tools


Appraise <Type of Item>
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Appraise is a measure of an actor's ability to judge the usefulness and
  monetary value of items, objects, or services of the specified type. An
  actor might use this skill when deciding what to bring back from a treasure
  horde, or when haggling with a shopkeeper over the cost of merchandise.

Attune
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Attune is a measure of an actor's ability to interface with magical items
  and constructs, and attempting to use such items will require an Attune
  check.

Flourish:
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Primary
  
  Flourish is a measure of an actor's equilibrium and ability to stand on or
  traverse narrow surfaces without falling or faltering, or when the time
  comes to fall, to fall gracefully or catch themselves. When an actor should
  attempt to enter such a scenario, a Flourish check will determine their
  success.
  
  Flourish is also the skill that defends an actor from a Trip check made
  against them.

Blend
  Attribute: Presence
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Blend is a measure of an actor's ability to act like other actors in their
  environment, and to go unnoticed despite being an outsider. Blending hides
  the actor in plain sight, without disguise or stealth, causing them to go
  unnoticed purely because nothing about them seems worth noticing.
  
  When a character is in a situation where they need to suppress an emotional
  reaction, they will need to make a Blend check.

Brawl
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  
  Brawl is a measure of an actor's ability to fight with only their body --
  arms, legs, hands, feet, head, etc.

Cast <Type of Magic>
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Cast is a measure of an actor's ability to cast spells that require time and
  patience. This is the mechanism by which spells with long casting times or
  lots of requisite preparation are cast, although spells which ordinarily are
  used in combat can be cast with this skill for utility purposes when not
  under duress. 

 
Charm
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Charm is a measure of an actor's ability to appeal to another actor's
  emotions or attractions to influence their mood or point of view.
  
Climb
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  Tools: Pitons and rope or a grappling hook for scaling vertically without
         handholds.
  
  Climb is a measure of an actor's ability to scale and rappel steep surfaces
  and objects. In instances of scaling a wall or cliff with few handholds,
  tools are necessary. When climbing in combat, surfaces that require a Climb
  check are considered difficult terrain for movement expense, and require a
  successful climb check in order to be traversed.

Cook <Type of Food>
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Dishes, cooking vessels, utensils.
  
  Cook is a measure of an actor's ability to produce palatable, nutritious
  food of the specified type.

Craft <Type of Item> 
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Trade-specific.
  
  Craft is a measure of an actor's ability to create items of the specified
  type.
  
Dance <Style of Dance>
  Attribute: Agility         
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Dance is a measure of an actor's ability to move rhythmically as a means of
  artistic expression, in a specified style that they practice.

Deceive
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Deceive is a measure of an actor's ability to convincingly conceal or
  corrupt the truth by how they control their voice and choose to reveal or
  omit information.

Detect Magic
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Tertiary
  Detect Magic is a measure of an actor's ability to sense magical effects or
  metaphysical presences in their environment.

Disguise
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Clothes, cosmetics, and props as appropriate
  
  Disguise is a measure of an actor's ability to conceal the identity of
  themselves or another actor by altering their external appearance
  
Draw
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: A writing utensil and a surface to draw on.
  
  Draw is a measure of an actor's ability to accurately depict creatures,
  objects, scenes, or diagrams in an artistic or informative manner.

Fasten
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Rope, straps, chains, cuffs, cords, or string, as appropriate.
  
  Fasten is a measure of an actor's ability to secure objects with restraints
  or fibers.

Forage
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Primary
  
  Forage is a measure of an actor's ability to find useful natural resources
  in the wilderness.

Garden
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: A vessel of water, shovel, trowel, rake, hoe, pitchfork, or other
  implements as appropriate.
  
  Garden is a measure of an actor's ability to tend to plants and other flora.
  
Grasp
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Reaction
  Tools: Determinant on the situation.
  
  Grasp is a measure of an actor's manual dexterity, to include handwriting
  and the art of imitating another's, tracking and snatching fast-approaching
  objects, and various other gestures and maneuvers of the hand.
  
  Specifically, the act of catching or swatting away an object may be used in
  combat as a reaction, provided the target of the act is not ammunition for
  a weapon.

Handle Animal
  Attribute: Presence
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Handle Animal is a measure of an actor's ability to demand the attention of
  and give commands to animals.

Hide
  Attribute: Agility
  Usage: Primary
  
  Hide is a measure of an actor's ability to make themselves unseen when
  remaining still, often by contorting their body to squeeze into small
  spaces. Attempting to move while hiding will initiate a Sneak check.

Intimidate
  Attribute: Presence
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Intimidate is a measure of an actor's ability to take advantage of another
  actor's fears and insecurities, or to project a sense of ferocity about
  themselves, to influence their mood or point of view.

Investigate
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Investigate is a measure of an actor's ability to discover information from
  other actors and their environment about a particular person, location, or
  object of interest. (This skill is usually used in place of multiple smaller
  conversations with individual NPC actors.)

Jump
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  
  Jump is a measure of an actor's ability to leap gaps or spring upwards. With
  a running start of at least 10 feet in a straight line, an actor can perform
  a long jump on a successful Jump check. A long jump's maximum distance is:
    
    Long jump = 5 + floor(Vigor / 5) feet
  
  An actor can perform a high jump with a running start of at least 5 feet and
  a successful Jump check. A high jump's maximum height is:
  
    High jump = floor(Vigor / 10) feet or 1 foot, whichever's higher.

Heft
  Attribute: Vigor
  Usage: Primary
  
  Heft is a measure of an actor's ability to move large, heavy objects under
  their own strength. The amount an actor can lift freely is their Carry
  Weight, but for carrying weight between their carry weight and their
  overload, an actor must succeed on a Heft check:
    
    DC = Weight of object in pounds - floor(Carry weight / 2)
  
  Actors who team up to lift objects together will evenly divide the weight
  across their carry weights. Actors whose fair share of the load falls into
  their overload range must make a Heft check.
  
  Pushing, pulling, and dragging objects follow similar rules. An actor can
  push, pull, or drag their overload in weight at their overloaded speed. For
  loads greater than that, use the following formula for the Heft check:
    
    DC = 50 + floor(10 * (Weight / Overload))
  
  Actors who team up to push, pull, or drag an object will evenly divide the
  load between them. Actors whose fair share of the load exceeds their
  overload must make a Heft check.
  
Listen
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Tertiary
  
  Listen is a measure of an actor's sense of hearing and is part of their
  general situational awareness.

Look
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Tertiary
  
  Look is a measure of an actor's eyesight and is part of their general
  situational awareness.

Navigate
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Sextant and star chart, or map and compass, or directions
         and landmarks, or a similar combination appropriate to the situation.
  
  Navigate is a measure of an actor's ability to orient themselves and plan
  routes with the tools available.

Persuade
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Persuade is a measure of an actor's ability to appeal to another actor's
  logical senses and intelligence to change their mood or point of view.

Play <Type of Instrument or Game>
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: An instrument of the chosen type.
  
  Play is a measure of an actor's ability and practice with an instrument or a
  game of the specified type.

Recall
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Recall is a measure of an actor's ability to recall important details and
  facts when the player controlling the actor might have forgotten. It's a
  skill that reaches into a metagame environment, but to prevent players from
  getting stuck to the game master's frustration.

Run
  Attribute: Resilience
  Usage: Primary
  
  Run is a measure of an actor's ability to maintain a fast, steady pace on
  foot for an extended period of time. When using the Dash action in combat to
  rush past an adversary, the adversary may initiate an attack of opportunity.
  If they do so, the actor who is dashing must make make a Run roll of a total
  greater than their adversary's attack roll to avoid being hit.
  
  Outside of combat, Run is used to sustain speed during when the actor is
  racing or attempting to escape something. The game master sets the DC and
  the effects on the actor's movement for a success or a failure.

Search
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Primary
  
  Search is a measure of an actor's ability to find lost or hidden objects,
  typically non-natural ones like switches, items, and weapons, in their
  environment.

Sense Motive
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Sense Motive is a measure of an actor's ability to estimate the intentions
  of another actor, in speech, writing, or the layout of their environment.
  This skill will often be used as a dynamic means of creating a DC for
  Charm, Deceive, Intimidate, or Persuade checks.

Sing
  Attribute: Allure
  Usage: Secondary
  
  Sing is a measure of an actor's ability to create or recite music vocally,
  particularly in a way that other actors will find entertaining or artistic.

Sneak
  Attribute: Agility
  Usage: Primary
  
  Sneak is a measure of an actor's ability to go unnoticed in movement, by
  either moving quickly and staying out of sight, or by moving silently, as
  the situation requires.

Swim
  Attribute: Resilience
  Usage: Primary
  
  Swim is a measure of an actor's ability to stay afloat and move in water or
  other liquids. A failed Swim check in slow-moving or still water does not
  immediately result in drowning, but rather prevents the actor from moving
  their speed in water (i.e. they are treading water). A successful swim check
  must be made before an actor can use their speed in water.
  
  Failed Swim checks in stronger currents, or after multiple failures, may
  result in the actor floundering or drowning.
  
  Water does not count as difficult terrain if the actor is swimming. Wading
  in water causes the water to act like difficult terrain.
  
Tinker
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Full-round
  Tools: Determinant on the object being manipulated.
  
  Tamper is a measure of an actor's ability to repair, recalibrate, disarm,
  dislodge, unlock, or otherwise manipulate mechanical devices without them
  necessarily remaining functional or being able to be restored to normal
  operation afterward.

Track <Type of Creature>
  Attribute: Intuition
  Usage: Non-combat
  
  Track is a measure of an actor's ability to follow a creature of the
  specified type from its foot prints, scents, telltale effects on features of
  the flora and fauna of the environment, and an understanding of its natural
  behaviors and instincts.

Treat Disease
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Non-combat
  Tools: Determinant on the type of disease, but likely to involve remedies,
         special procedures, physical assistance, food, water, or rest.
  
  Treat Disease is a measure of an actor's ability to provide care or cure to
  other actors (or themselves) as they suffer from an illness.

Treat Injury
  Attribute: Knowledge
  Usage: Full-round
  Tools: Determinant on the type of injury, but likely to involve salves,
         bandages, bindings, food, water, or rest.
  
  Treat Injury is a measure of an actor's ability to provide care and medicine
  to other actors as they suffer from a wound. When used as an action in
  combat, a Treat Injury check may be used to apply a bandage or tourniquet to
  a wounded actor to prevent a grave injury from growing worse later.

Trip
  Attribute: Agility
  Usage: Primary
  
  Trip is a measure of an actor's ability to take other actors by surprise and
  throw them off balance. The target of a Trip check sets the DC with a
  Flourish check. If the actor making the Trip check beats the DC, the target
  falls to the ground. The game master determines whether the player falls
  supine or prone, as would be appropriate for the scenario. If the Trip check
  fails, the target remains standing.

Wield <Type of Melee Weapon>
  Attribute: Vigor 
  Usage: Primary, Reaction
  Tools: A weapon of the specified type.
  
  Wield Melee is a measure of an actor's ability to fight effectively with a
  weapon of the specified type.
  
  In certain circumstances, Wield Melee can be taken as a reaction. When an
  adversary dashes through an actor's space, they make a Wield Melee check
  against a Run check by the adversary. The attack succeeds if it beats the DC
  set by the Run check.


Wield <Aimed Weapon>
  Attribute: Finesse
  Usage: Primary
  Tools: A weapon of the specified type.
  
  Wield Aimed is a measure of an actor's ability to fight effectively with a
  weapon of the specified type.
  
Wield <Type of Magic>
  Attribute: Soul*
  Usage: Primary
  Tools: A spell of the specified type of magic.
  
  Wield Magic is a measure of an actor's ability to cast spells of a
  specified type of magic under duress.
  
