Status Conditions
==============================================================================
In Modular RPG, actors can have a variety of status conditions, which change
some of their character statistics.
  
  Normal
  Incapacitated
  Disabled
  Unconscious
  Asleep

Actors with Normal status are suffering from no other conditions, and function
as their statistics describe without modification.

An actor becomes Incapacitated when their HP drops to 0 but their VP remains
above 0. In this state, an actor is lying on the ground, either prone or
supine, with their speed dropped to 0 and their VT reduced by half. They
cannot take Reactions, Full-round actions, or movement (except for 5 feet of
movement offered by a Secondary action) and may not use a full round action.
If another actor makes a successful Treat Injury check on an Incapacitated
actor, that actor regains 1 HP and becomes Disabled instead. An actor who is
Incapacitated will return to Normal status after a short rest.

When an actor is Disabled, their speed and VT are halved. They cannot take
Reactions or Full-round actions. An actor who is Disabled will return to
Normal status after a short rest.

When an actor is Unconscious, their VT drops to 1 and they are unable to move,
take actions, make skill checks, or respond to stimuli. An actor becomes
Unconscious by having their VP drop to 0. After a short rest, an Unconscious
actor will return to Normal status and gain 1 VP and 1 EP, in addition to the
HP recovery from a short rest.

When an actor is Asleep, their VT drops to 1 and they are unable to move,
take actions, or make skill checks, but they can still respond to stimuli. A
sleeping actor will awaken if they are attacked and not killed, if they are
touched or shaken repeatedly, or if they are subjected to bright lights or
loud sounds.


Body Positions
--------------

Some minor effects are applied to an actor depending on their position.
  
  Standing
  Crouching
  Prone
  Supine

A standing actor has no advantages or ill effects.

A crouching actor has a +10 bonus to their dodge class against Aimed attacks,
but a -10 to their dodge class against Melee attacks. An actor can drop into a
crouching stance for free, but must expend 10 feet of movement to rise to a
standing position.

A prone actor has a +15 bonus to their dodge class against Aimed attacks, but
a -15 to their dodge class against Melee attacks. All terrain is considered
difficult terrain while prone. They have -10 on any checks made as attacks,
but a +10 on Trip checks. An actor can drop prone for free, but must expend
15 feet of movement to rise to a standing position.

A supine actor has a +15 bonus to their dodge class against Aimed attacks, but
a -15 to their dodge class against Melee attacks. An actor must make a DC 50
Tumble check to fall supine. On a pass, they fall gracefully. On a failure,
they take 1d4 bludgeoning damage. A supine actor cannot move, and they must
expend all their speed to return to a standing position, or 15 feet of
movement to flip to a prone position.



